<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-36" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
			<p>It was more than a month after Nannie’s departure when Lucy visited the office again.</p>
			<p>For the trip to town, she selected a morning when John had mentioned that Jim was going out of the city for several days. She entered the office timidly. John was working at an interior decoration scheme. He glanced up as she came in but did not trouble himself with more than a greeting. She went to the window and gazed out for a time, then sat down at Jim’s desk.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Jim himself opened the door and came briskly into the office.</p>
			<p>“I decided to wait till next week⁠—” he began. Then, catching sight of Lucy, he stopped.</p>
			<p>She rose.</p>
			<p>The even red color flowed up over his face and he stood undecided an instant. Then he shook hands formally.</p>
			<p>“Are you keeping well this hot weather?” he inquired stiffly.</p>
			<p>“Very well, thank you.”</p>
			<p>“And how is Dimmie?”</p>
			<p>“He’s well, too, thank you,” she replied.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me. I must see a man at Layard’s before lunch,” he explained awkwardly, going out.</p>
			<p>He did not return.</p>
			<p>“Jim Sprague is growing more peculiar every day,” John complained to Lucy, as the sound of Jim’s steps died away. “He’s become impossible to get along with, even in business.”</p>
			<p>Lucy did not speak. She sat down near John, her face averted.</p>
			<p>“I was going to tell you last night,” he continued, “but didn’t. He has offered me his share of the business⁠—at a low price⁠—in fact almost nothing⁠—and on liberal terms: time payments. He has an offer from Layard’s and wants to get out. It’s far and away a better position than I had with them. That shows what kind of a friend <em>he</em> was.”</p>
			<p>Lucy stared at the papers on the table before her.</p>
			<p>“I think you’d better buy it,” she advised at last.</p>
			<p>“I think so too,” John agreed. “I couldn’t do it alone because I’m very badly in debt now⁠—” Lucy looked up at him startled⁠—“but Mathews thinks he’s had enough of bookkeeping. He’s been at it fifteen years now, and has got something laid by, and he’ll go in with me. His experience with Layard’s will be very useful to us. What do you think?”</p>
			<p>Lucy shivered slightly.</p>
			<p>“I think that will be the best scheme,” she declared without hesitation.</p>
			<p>“All right,” concluded John, “I’ll begin to make plans that way, then. Now you sit here a minute, Lucy, while I go across the hall to a lawyer’s office about this contract, and then we’ll go and get lunch together.” And John passed into the corridor.</p>
			<p>Lucy rose again and, walking rather unsteadily to Jim’s desk, laid her hands softly upon it. She rested so for a minute. Then she went slowly to the window opposite the street and gazed across the roofs to the tall building in which Layard’s offices were situated.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
