<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2>
			<p>Jim came to look at the world and people with clearer eyes. He saw that his father kept him in the store to save clerk hire and not with any intention of giving him a share in the business. He realized that he had no home or career in his native town. He thought matters out very carefully and fully.</p>
			<p>One morning at breakfast, after reading a letter just received from John, the complacent tone of which threw his own forlornness into relief, he announced to his father that he was going away to college.</p>
			<p>“You’re going to stay right where you are,” responded <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sprague from his side of the table.</p>
			<p>“No, I’m going,” repeated Jim quietly.</p>
			<p>“Well, you won’t get a cent from me,” exclaimed his father with the air of saying the last word in an argument. “I suppose this is another of the fool notions you’ve got from that Winter boy.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t expect anything from you,” explained Jim.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sprague passed one hand over his stubbly chin and regarded his son with cold curiosity. The elder Sprague was burly and inclined to stoop. He wore reading glasses and now he peered through them with as much detachment as an entomologist who has a mildly interesting insect under the microscope. He was, as usual, in his shirt sleeves, and his deliberate untidiness of dress seemed the aggressively flaunted signal of that coarseness of spirit which was a matter of pride with him.</p>
			<p>“Don’t fool yourself into thinkin’ I don’t mean what I say,” he remarked.</p>
			<p>A month after this incident Jim informed his father that he was leaving for college.</p>
			<p>“Well, remember, you needn’t come back,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sprague told him.</p>
			<p>Jim went to the station alone, carrying a small bundle under his arm, and climbed on the car unnoticed. As the train pulled out of the place he looked back on the little town. This was his last glimpse of his childhood home.</p>
			<p>He arrived at college with one suit of clothes, a few extra shirts and other accessories, and three dollars in his pocket, having borrowed the money from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Winter, John’s father, to pay for his ticket. His first act was to hunt up John who received him with his old affection.</p>
			<p>“Gee, but I’m glad to see you!” John exclaimed boisterously, slapping Jim on the back.</p>
			<p>He insisted that Jim share his room and allowance, but Jim had no intention of being dependent on anyone. He shoveled snow, cared for the furnaces in the college dormitory, sawed wood and split kindling for the families near the campus, and by working early and late managed to remain in the college and even won the scholarship in mathematics. The first money he earned above his living expenses was sent back to pay the debt he had incurred for his journey.</p>
			<p>He and John now shared room and funds on equal terms and Jim, by imperceptible degrees, assumed his old responsibility for John’s welfare and progress.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>John had never really decided what his profession or occupation should be. Jim brought the question up by declaring that he did not intend to follow a stated college course but planned to fit himself to be an architect. John believed himself a born artist and talked of studies in Rome and Paris after his course in college was ended. One day he rushed into the room and flung his cap into a corner.</p>
			<p>“Jim!” he cried enthusiastically, “I’ve decided to be an architect too!” He went on to talk of the opportunities of the true artist in a profession that had lured the greatest masters from the Greeks to Michelangelo.</p>
			<p>“But modern architecture is more of a science than an art,” Jim pointed out. “The calculations of stresses and strength of materials has more to do with it than the ‘visions of a dream in marble’ you are talking about.”</p>
			<p>However, John was not to be dissuaded and the two boys were soon entered in the special courses marked in the institution’s catalogue as leading to proficiency in architectural science.</p>
			<p>John’s difficulty with mathematics was a handicap in most of these courses, and Jim had to help him in his work as in the days of their early boyhood. Notwithstanding this aid, John (who always took high marks in more general courses) found it hard to keep pace with his fellows, and, after the end of the first semester, decided to abandon their plan. It was only Jim’s initiative and generous giving of time to help him that decided John on the continuation of their design.</p>
			<p>John always went home for the holidays and vacations, while Jim stayed on alone in the almost empty dormitory, working and studying.</p>
			<p>The characteristics of the two boys became more evident as they approached majority. John conceived confidence in anybody who pleased him, each new acquaintance possessing, for the time being, all the perfections. Jim developed an almost uncanny insight into the motives of those around him, and was slow to form friendships.</p>
			<p>“Never mind what people say,” he would tell John. “Fix your attention on finding out why they say it. That’s the way to get at things.”</p>
			<p>When they graduated, or rather, completed their courses, for neither received his degree, Jim began work at once in an architect’s office in the college town, and settled down with his customary methodical perseverance to make a place for himself. John returned home for a few months and then persuaded his parents to send him to the Art School in Chicago to study what he felt to be the higher aspects of his profession.</p>
			<p>Soon after his entrance into the School of Art he returned to painting, and left designing to study oils and watercolor work. The former companions were separated but exchanged frequent letters and remained as close friends as ever. John always thought of Jim as “good old Jim.” Jim never quite analyzed his feelings for John, much as he loved to evaluate the motives of others. He had always needed and would always need someone to care for, and John was in his life. He did not go further than this.</p>
			<p>A year after their separation, Jim’s employer gave him a share in the small business, and, dying a few months later, left Jim in full charge of his affairs. Jim, whose success and promise had been noticed by many, easily borrowed enough capital to buy the business outright from the heirs, and in a brief period had paid his debt and won the independent opportunity of which he had dreamed for years.</p>
			<p>It was not many months after this that John, in one of his letters, interested his friend by announcing that he had fallen in love, and by raving in a school boy fashion over the object of his devotion. Jim for some time had considered the wisdom of transferring his business to Chicago. It seemed to have reached the limit of development in the little college town, and he was anxious for a field that put no restrictions on his ability. John’s letter spurred him to a decision as to the future and he replied with the news that he was coming to the city himself, and asked John to meet him at the station. At their first sight of each other they renewed the old familiar relation.</p>
			<p>John discussed everything with all his former frankness and enthusiasm and Jim, listening, felt more than ever that John was his to care for and watch over.</p>
			<p>“But what are you going to do to support a wife?” was Jim’s first question.</p>
			<p>“Jim, I’m through with experiments. I’m going to work,” replied John earnestly.</p>
			<p>“Where?” asked Jim.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got a place as a draughtsman with Layard’s, a big building supply firm here,” the younger man explained. “Life is serious now and I’m going to do something.”</p>
			<p>Jim said no more.</p>
			<p>The following day John took him to call on Lucy Merwent.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The two young men went into partnership a few weeks before John and Lucy were married and it was not many months before it was evident that the business venture was succeeding on a fairly safe basis.</p>
			<p>Nora Stimpson, the red-haired art student of Miss Storms’ first party, called on Lucy after the wedding. She also came to the office several times to see John, and each time the two talked and laughed like old friends. She smiled on Jim in a most friendly manner. He managed to be in the office whenever she was there but, as his air was far from cordial, she finally ceased visiting them.</p>
			<p>The business developed but never became important. John did the draughting and Jim attended to the practical details of specifications and dealt with contractors.</p>
			<p>When Lucy’s baby was born it was christened James Sprague Winter. The second year after their marriage John paid a flying visit to his parents; and on one occasion <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Winter attended a church convention in Chicago and stayed a week with his son and daughter-in-law. He questioned Lucy regarding her soundness in doctrine and was aghast at her honest replies. Nevertheless he liked her and carried back to Dimmie’s grandmother a favorable report of “John’s wife.”</p>
			<p>Jim matured and developed during the years after John’s marriage, but he who had long ago learned to understand others never quite came to understand himself. Lucy did not puzzle him, but it was only after knowing her that he realized the idealism and emotionalism of John. The realization did not cool his affection. He only smiled to himself when his friend allowed enthusiasm to blind discretion, and said, “John has his rose-colored spectacles on again.”</p>
			<p>While his old idolatry of John was thus tempered by ripening judgment, it was an incident of brief duration and apparently trivial consequence that caused, as Jim thought, the scales to fall from his eyes and forced him entirely to turn, with a feeling of slight bitterness, to Lucy rather than her husband for the expression of the hidden things in his nature.</p>
			<p>The involuntary arbiter of Jim’s spiritual destiny, according to his own interpretation, was a pretty Irish girl, Miss Brennan, whom he and John had employed as their accountant and stenographer. She was a silly, sentimentally-inclined young woman who accepted admiration indiscriminately from all sources. She had troubles, the chief of which were a drunken father and a cross-grained mother.</p>
			<p>Under the influence of John’s expansive sympathy, which she soon appraised, her secrets were unfolded to him and he, with constant ardency, accepted the role of father confessor. She did not like Jim, whose disapproval she felt, and most of her interviews with John were reserved for hours when the two were almost certain not to be interrupted. She was a devout Roman Catholic and John, under her tutelage, began to evince a sudden interest in Catholicism.</p>
			<p>“You know that little Miss Brennan, she’s so beautifully simple,” he told Jim one day at luncheon. “I happened to be passing her church when she was going in the other day and just for curiosity I went in with her. Catholicism is the only religion left for an artist anyway. You don’t know how much it affected me when I saw how in earnest she was with her beads and genuflections. The whole thing reminded me of a medieval picture. It’s about the only naive thing left in our sophisticated age.”</p>
			<p>“Catholics may be naive but not the Catholic Church,” remarked Jim unsympathetically. He was not thinking of questions of religious feeling however as he studied John’s face. John was irritated by this scrutiny.</p>
			<p>“You seem to have lost all your temperamental appreciation of things, Jim,” he observed in a vexed tone.</p>
			<p>The first confirmation which Jim’s unadmitted suspicions received came when John insisted on raising Miss Brennan’s salary.</p>
			<p>“She’s almost the only dependence of her family, and the things she has to put up with to keep things going are pitiful,” he declared.</p>
			<p>“How much do you think we ought to give her?” asked Jim.</p>
			<p>John hesitated, and, glancing away as he spoke, named the sum Miss Brennan had suggested, which almost doubled the amount she was receiving.</p>
			<p>There was a brief pause.</p>
			<p>“We can’t afford to turn the business into a philanthropic enterprise,” Jim answered laconically.</p>
			<p>It was the next day that Jim, entering the office at an unanticipated moment, surprised Miss Brennan in tears and John soothing her with unconventional tenderness. Jim passed on into the draughting room, not seeming to observe the confusion of the pair, and it was John himself who, with a guilty air, referred to the subject an hour later when the stenographer was out for luncheon.</p>
			<p>“I guess you were surprised when you came in and found Miss Brennan crying like that?” he suggested.</p>
			<p>“Not particularly.” Jim looked out the window as he spoke.</p>
			<p>“But Miss Brennan⁠—Jim, she’s got the most wonderful lot of grit! It makes a fellow spiritually sick to see a woman young and pretty as she is up against such an awful proposition!” And he launched into a eulogy of Miss Brennan which embraced all of the adjectives which Jim, on other occasions, had heard him apply to Lucy.</p>
			<p>The day following Jim waited until John had gone around the corner to Layard’s to get some prices on furnishing lumber, and he and Miss Brennan were the sole occupants of the office.</p>
			<p>“Miss Brennan,” he announced, “I want to tell you that your services are not required any longer. Your salary will be paid until the end of the month.”</p>
			<p>Miss Brennan opened her lips to speak. She looked into Jim’s eyes. Her small mouth quivered.</p>
			<p>“Why I don’t know what you mean! <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winter⁠—” She hesitated, eyeing Jim an instant with fear and bewilderment. Then a confused understanding dawned in her face.</p>
			<p>“I was never so insulted in my life, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sprague!” she exclaimed indignantly, a catch in her voice.</p>
			<p>Jim did not answer, and two large tears rolled down her cheeks as she moved away from him.</p>
			<p>When John returned to the office Jim was walking up and down the inner draughting room, smoking. His tall shadow, as he paced back and forth, moved across the ground glass partition. Miss Brennan outside had on her hat and coat.</p>
			<p>Jim heard John’s exclamation and knew that she was breaking the news to him. In a few moments sobs were audible. John opened the inner door. His face was crimson. He and Jim stared at one another like strangers.</p>
			<p>“What the hell does this mean, Jim?” John demanded, his voice shaking with suppressed feeling and his manner almost threatening.</p>
			<p>“I think you know about as well as I do, John.”</p>
			<p>“The devil I do! I won’t have it, that’s all! It’s a shame!” He seemed ready for battle as he spoke.</p>
			<p>“All right, John,” answered Jim quietly.</p>
			<p>John went out into the office again, slamming the door behind him.</p>
			<p>Miss Brennan was close to the corridor entrance.</p>
			<p>“I think I’d better go, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Winter. You are so good to me, but I couldn’t stay in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sprague’s employ,” she answered, when John insisted on her remaining.</p>
			<p>So she went away, and whether she and John met again was a mystery which Jim did not try to solve, but he felt that he had at least kept the affair from reaching a development which would come to Lucy’s ears.</p>
			<p>The partners tacitly avoided employing a successor to Miss Brennan, going across the hall of their office building to a public stenographer, when a stenographer was necessary, while Jim posted and cast their accounts in his room each evening after his day’s work.</p>
			<p>The incident caused a passing coolness between them. Indeed there were some weeks during which John scarcely spoke to Jim. The clouds were dispelled however. John showed a sudden warmth and simultaneously came an invitation to dinner from Lucy.</p>
			<p>Jim did not question the impulse or try to guess whether it had originated with John or his wife. He was too anxious to accept any terms which allowed him to go to the Winter home as before and enjoy the companionship of Lucy who treated him like a good friend and a brother.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>John told himself, after the incident of the stenographer, that he was a little disappointed in Jim, who lacked the qualifications for comprehending the finer feelings, but the change in John’s regard did not appear on the surface.</p>
			<p>Jim remained the counselor for the family in all practical matters, and was looked upon by the expansive Dimmie as almost the equal of his father. Jim paid frequent visits to the house at Rosedene, often remaining from Saturday until Monday. A bedroom which Lucy had referred to as “Jim’s room” when the house was under construction, was always at his disposal, and when he was present Lucy accepted him with a naturalness and lack of ceremony which he found more flattering than the most exaggerated attention.</p>
			<p>After his return from Rosedene on the night of his first <span xml:lang="fr">tête-à-tête</span> with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Merwent, who had rather taken his breath away by her display of mingled clumsiness and cunning, he sat and smoked in silence in his room until very late. An amazing new factor had entered his world. As he finally grew sleepy and prepared himself for bed, he decided that his first problem was to help Lucy in her immediate predicament.</p>
			<p>“Poor child,” he murmured as he knocked out his last pipe and lay down.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
